# FullStack
Full Stack Development with MEAN

This project builds a full stack MEAN application with Express and Handlebars used for the customer facing site while an Angular Single Page Application is used for the administrative site. The SPA loads the full site when the user loads the website, which can cause delays in loading, but reduces the amount of requests sent to the backend server as the user is using the site. The initial delay results in an overall faster user experience as the site is navigated. The Express client site loads each page more quickly, but results in more requests and loads each page as it is requested.

The application uses MongoDB for ease of use, scalability, native object mapping, and JSON-like format. It is trivial to interact with MongoDB from Javascript using JSON. It is also easy to move data around the different parts of the application architecture from backend to each of the frontends, as everything is built around Javascript.

There are several parts of the application where code is separated out into models, views, and controllers based on which part of the system is interacting with which other part. This allows changes to one system through a single file without worrying that it will affect other parts of the system as long as the input and output aren't changed. There are also areas where Handlebars or Angular tags are used to allow one page to serve different types of information or lists of information with fewer lines of code. This is especially useful for repetetive sections that would require each page to be created statically and loaded individually like the travel list and each individual trip.

Testing the RESTful API was done with Postman. This allowed me to determine whether the HTTP requests were returning the correct information. I was also able to use Robo3T to view the information in the database to ensure that PUT and POST requests were working all the way through the backend. Adding in JWT authorization increased the security of the application, but also increased the difficulty of testing with Postman, though it was still possible. I would recommend removing the security in a development environment while making any changes to the RESTful API to ensure that it works correctly before reimplementing the security.

As I have never worked on a full stack application before, this was a very interesting project. I have also not worked with JavaScript before, so that was a learning experience. Overall, I found the information used in this project to be helpful in learning about several different technologies. I hope to use these skills in future projects.
